# S2-T21
# Path guidance for emergency evacuation

## Team Details

Pal Patel, 231CS240, palpatel.231cs240@nitk.edu.in, 9265254960
   
Pragya Paromita Barma, 231CS241, pragyaparomitabarma.231cs241@nitk.edu.in, 8160727736
   
Srishti Kumari, 231CS258, srishtikumari.231cs258@nitk.edu.in, 8310595970

# Abstract :

<summary>Motivation </summary> The project is motivated by the critical need to have evacuation systems that
are smart, adaptable, and help save lives in emergencies; the complexity and overpopulation
of urban areas today call for allowing escape routes to be optimized even in unpredictable
conditions through efficient algorithms like Dijkstra’s. It can be incorporated into emergency
response systems to greatly increase the safety and efficiency of evacuations in life-threatening
situations such as fires. In emergencies such as building fires, time is rather critical. Finding the
safest and fastest route to evacuate, can be lifesaving. Conventional fire evacuation approaches
rely on static plans that may not be useful during real situations. Such hostile environments
require intelligent systems that must travel by the safest path possible and take into account
the continuously changing conditions generated by the fire.

<summary>Problem Statement </summary> In the case of a fire outbreak inside a building, finding the safest and
quickest evacuation route for a person is critical. Given the building’s layout, the person must
navigate through hallways and rooms to reach an exit point while avoiding areas affected by
fire. We have developed a solution using Dijkstra’s algorithm to determine the shortest and
safest path from the person’s current location (source node) to the nearest exit (destination
node).

<summary>Features </summary>: This project stands out from the rest as it seeks to take Dijkstra’s Algorithm off
the pages of theory and put it into practice by physically constructing it using Verilog and
certain modern circuit components hence putting forward a new device or rather the hardware
approach to the pathfinding. Unlike their counterparts where software in other words is the
main tool to implement the designs behind looking for the shortest paths, In this design, an
attempt has been made to utilize parallelism to achieve higher speeds and efficiency in finding
out the shortest of all the paths present. Moreover, the use of Logisim where circuits are
drawn and simulated has also made it possible to appreciate the working of the algorithm
in the hardware by making it possible to see how various resources are managed and the
complexity in terms of circuits .
   
## References
> [https://www.cs.usfca.edu/galles/visualization/Dijkstra.html]

> [https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dijkstras-shortest-path-algorithm-greedy-algo-7/]
